[0.00s -> 28.11s]  What's the difference between teaching and coaching? Hey there, it's Chris Westvaugh, and I wanted to record this short video to introduce you to someone who I worked with, a very talented student by the name of Chase Lanow. And when you're teaching someone, right, as a teacher or professor, you have the agenda, the curriculum, and the objectives, the rubric for the course, that sort of thing. And you say things like, we're gonna start at chapter one. Coaching's different.
[28.11s -> 52.08s]  coaching meets you where you are. And the agenda or the syllabus is co-created in the coaching conversation. It's a little bit different. You understand that a coach has to meet you where you are. So let's take a look, first of all, at where Chase was when he presented to the Aggie 100 after winning Aggie Pitch with his innovative idea here because Chase...
[52.08s -> 81.02s]  was going to compete in the SEC pitch competition at the University of Tennessee. So he was competing against all the other schools in the SEC conference, and he wanted to share his message with greater impact. So we worked on it, and well, anyway, I've said enough. Let Chase tell you the rest of the story. All right, this pitch is different from what you're used to, because you can't just sit here and watch it. In fact, let me cut this off.
[81.02s -> 111.94s]  You need to feel it. So if willing and able, would you please stand up with me? Awesome. All right, let's get a slight bend in the knees and bring your chest forward until your chin is a couple inches in front of your toes. Perfect. Now hold this position. Not very comfortable, right? I'm 21 years old and I don't even like doing this. Reach around and feel your lower back muscles. Feel how tight and contracted they are. They're fired up right now, working hard to keep up your body at this angle. Imagine holding this for five, six, even seven hours. How long would it be until you start shaking?
[111.94s -> 139.34s]  What would happen to your cognitive ability as time went on? This is the challenge that surgeons face every day. Thank you. You can sit down. Seven hours, people. And it's not just a one-time thing. You have a seven-hour procedure every Monday, Wednesday, Friday, every single week. That's what cardiac surgeon Dr. Roy here does. My dad, he's a surgeon. He's in the middle, trust me. He loves telling me about his back pain. And Dr. Mason here has the same issue. It turns out that 70% of surgeons have recurrent lower back pain.
[139.44s -> 168.30s]  This physically amazing task affects work performance, productivity, and ultimately career longevity for surgeons. And it's also a leading cause to a prominent issue right now called surgeon burnout. This burnout is a state of complete exhaustion that's been experienced by 80% of surgeons and is caused by this overload of intense focus and strain. And it's not just a personal issue for them because studies have shown that surgeons experiencing burnout were twice as likely to make a major medical error compared to their non-burnout peers. Hey, nobody wants their surgeon to be suffering.
[168.30s -> 192.85s]  especially when you're that patient that's on the table. But the good news is that it doesn't have to be like this. My name is Chase Leno. I'm a junior engineering major from Texas A&M and my patent pending product is called Surgeon Support. Surgeon Support is an adjustable pad that attaches onto the operating table. It allows the surgeon to lean on it to take the load off their back and stabilize their hands. It provides the support and stability that the surgeon needs in order to focus on the patient care without the physical burden.
[192.85s -> 221.17s]  This is backed by electromyography studies that found that muscle activity in the back is significantly reduced when you're able to lean forward and rest on something. It's versatile and it can even act as an armrest when the surgeon's seated. I invented this with input from surgeons of different fields, ensuring that every surgeon can find their ideal ergonomic position regardless of the surgery type. It attaches to the standard operating table by clamping onto a universal rail. There's over 150,000 of these tables in the world and 26,000 sold per year.
[221.33s -> 241.33s]  It fits seamlessly into the operating room. It has a quick and easy setup and take down. Its minimal presence ensures that there's plenty of room for the patient and the operating room workers. It can be cleaned and draped to maintain a sterile area, and it does not limit the surgeon's needed range of mobility. It's also a Class 1 medical device, so there's no lengthy FDA approval. It's only subject to standard controls.
[242.00s -> 269.31s]  Meet my mentors. We got Mr. Roland Block. He's an engineer at the biggest operating table company in the nation. He actually helped design the tables that Surgeon Support clamps onto. We got Dr. Jason Harris, Dean of the second most prolific inventor in Johnson & Johnson history. And we got Dr. Michael Moreno, Director of Innovation at A&M's Engineering and Medicine School. These men have helped me develop a solid game plan and Surgeon Support will mostly be sold to surgery centers and hospitals. There's 12,000 of these facilities in the US alone.
[269.31s -> 297.44s]  and 60,000 operating rooms within these facilities. It can be made in quantity for $700 per unit and sold at $4,500. There's also a repeat revenue stream of single-use disposable units called surgical drapes, giving it a razor and razor blade sales model. The ultimate goal is to license the right to manufacture and sell surgeon support to an operating table company. These companies have many reasons to reach a licensing agreement. For one,
[297.44s -> 323.18s]  When the operating table companies negotiate their sales at their tables with hospitals and surgery centers, they aim for bundled sales contracts that include the tables themselves and a suite of table accessories to go along with the tables. The capabilities of the products within this bundle differentiate one company from the other. And with the rising awareness of surgeon care and efforts to reduce surgeon burnout, implementing surgeon support can be the deciding factor in securing these multi-million dollar contracts. And two,
[323.18s -> 350.56s]  The market for selling surgeon support isn't just limited to selling it with the new tables. Since it attaches onto that standard rail that's universal among all operating tables, surgeon support can be sold to every surgery center and hospital looking to extend their surgeon's careers. So if you felt the impact of this and you want to contribute to prolonging patient care and enhancing it, an investment of $250,000 would be allocated to product refinement.
[350.56s -> 384.58s]  FDA strategizing and intellectual property fees. When your life is in the hands of a surgeon, why wouldn't you want that surgeon to have support? Thank you. When it comes to the coaching conversation, coaching focuses on your success. Coaching meets you where you are. And when it's time to change the conversation, you can change your results. And the power in coaching, I know as a coach and having been coached in many aspects of my life, the power inside the coaching conversation is
[384.58s -> 407.09s]  You don't have to go it alone. You've got somebody that's riding shotgun that can offer a different perspective when you have someone in your corner who is as focused on your goals as you are. It's a powerful, powerful start to a new kind of conversation. Thanks again for watching this video. My name is Chris Westfall and I'll talk to you again soon.
